---
title: Jan 24th, 2021
---

## #thoughts
### Feeling more confident in myself. Keep going, keep thinking about the life for you and #Tsechu
### #Tsechu s favourite state is Washington. That is where we need to live and I should buy a house.
###
## #dailylearnings
### Getting a #mortgage as a self-employed director of a company faces lots of hurdles. You need:
#### To be earning at minimum 25k a year - averaging (as smooth as possible)
#### Have a minimum of one years wage information, but ideally 2-3 years worth, so they can smooth out the average salary.
#### Have a very large deposit >10%
#### Very good credit history. No additional debts or loans
#### You need to show a large rainy day fund.
## Paying #tax and #payroll uk
### Record all your business trips and claim for these - even trip to the local post office in your car to send a business letter or parcel. In fact, you can claim for cycling to the post office. **The allowed rate for cycling is 20p per mile** - so get on your bike instead of using your car.
### So many more tips here: https://www.startupdonut.co.uk/tax-and-national-insurance/accounting-and-bookkeeping/five-top-tips-for-doing-your-own-books
### And a full guide here: https://startups.co.uk/people/payroll/how-to-pay-employees
:PROPERTIES:
:todo: 1611479960534
:END:
### It's important to note that HMRC does have a free tool to do all the basics.
### A salary of 25k per year costs the company 27400 ish year. https://www.income-tax.co.uk/ is a great site for calculating payroll costs.
### **Claiming Tax Credits (for Technical/Science Founders)** (check this link out: http://www.hmrc.gov.uk/gds/cird/attachments/rdsimpleguide.pdf) If you are a technical/scientific founder, then there are research and development (R&D) tax credits available that might be able to offset some of the cost of your salary, depending on what your company does and produces. For example, if you are developing a new business that uses machine learning to conduct financial analysis and make investment decisions for users through an app, then you would meet the criteria to claim some development costs back from the government. We’re not going to go into it all here, however, the requirements to meet the demands are relatively unrestrictive. 

You need to demonstrate that you are:

    Seeking to create an advancement in science or technology.
    Overcoming a level of scientific or technological uncertainty to achieve this.
This doesn’t require that the technology or research is cutting edge (it is not referring to university-level research). “Uncertainty”, for example, might be developing a new web-based API for your business, and you’re unsure whether it will scale effectively.

If your startup is eligible, then you can look to claim back 33% of your R&D spending. However, as a founder, it is unlikely that you will be able to claim all of your salary back (you won’t be spending all of your time entirely devoted to the development so not of your work necessarily fall under the R&D credits parameters). That being said, if you’re a tech-based startup, there is a good chance that a lot of it will.

To explain this a little more simply: let us say that you are planning to pay yourself £30,000 a year, that will cost your company £32,949 with the obligatory national insurance contribution. Then you estimate that you spend 70% of your time developing things that would fall under the R&D criteria. That would mean that you could potentially claim £7,611.22 back from your salary. This would result in your effective cost to the company being £25,337.78 per year. This is a typical way to reduce the salary cost of technical founders and, later, technical employees. You can find out more about this tax credit
## The Salton sea in California is an artificial sea created by the bursting of a huge damn which lead to flooding on the desert planes , and due to the soft sand, a river formed carving a road at a mile a day, which eventually led to the Salton sea basin. The sea is drying up and will have completely disappeared in the next 60 years. The town that remains is "Max max" in real-life.
##
## **Day plan**
### DONE Get out of bed and make breakfast
:PROPERTIES:
:todo: 1611477526034
:done: 1611483159352
:END:
### DONE re-read thesis - everything and make edits. Nearly there!!
:PROPERTIES:
:todo: 1611477558544
:done: 1612066694729
:END:
#### I only got to chapter 1. I'm annoyed with myself.
### DONE ring auntival during lunch break
:PROPERTIES:
:todo: 1611477645034
:done: 1611529494214
:END:
### DONE stretches + evening home workout
:PROPERTIES:
:todo: 1611477579042
:done: 1611529505003
:END:
###
