---
title: Jan 14th, 2021
---

## #thoughts
### There are many paths in front of me and lots of uncertainty. Ultimately, all the paths that I choose should lead me to Tsechu within 1 year.
#### Uncertainty in where Tsechu will be adds to stress, because I don't want to be far from her. She's my baby and I love her with all my heart.
### Tsechus short termism is both good and bad. Good in the sense that it drives me, bad in the sense her objectives are always changing. It can make it difficult to plan around, and it can be stressful. But, I love her for all that she is and I know full well that I would live a purposeful life with her.
#### The drive to make enough money for Tsechu, myself and her family is something that I want to accomplish and is driving me forward. But, how do I make so much money in a legal way, in a very short period of time ?[[goals]]
### Struggling to sleep and motivate myself. I think part of it is feeling trapped because of lockdown and part of it is due just wishing the phd and thesis would disappear. So close to the end, just have the final pages to complete.
### Can I even build a trading strategy? Maybe I'm too risk averse?
##
## #TODOs
### DONE complete two #Thesis #TODOs today
:PROPERTIES:
:now: 1610623126572
:later: 1610623118221
:done: 1610623115685
:END:
#### Finish inference chapter
### DONE Keep an eye on positions
:PROPERTIES:
:now: 1610623252185
:done: 1610657866661
:END:
### DONE Look into #backtesting libraries for [[Building a trading system]]
:PROPERTIES:
:later: 1610623272127
:done: 1612903356120
:END:
### DONE SCHEDULED: <2021-01-14 Thu 12:00> Meeting with Andrea about [[Genetic algorithms]].
:PROPERTIES:
:done: 1610657858138
:END:
###
